Well let's begin actually creating the armature for the mech to do that.
I'm going to go into the front view and hit 5:04 orthographic view and I'm going to create the beginnings
of an armature here.
First of all I'm going to bring the cursor into the center of the grid and then we could come over here
to the Create tab and scroll down and click on armature or we could in the 3D view press shift A and
select armature here so I'll select armature.
Single bone and create that bone.
Now we can move this in Object mode here.
But what that will do is that will move the origin of the armature off of the center and we want to
keep it in the center of the grid here.
So to move this bone I'm going to go to Edit mode by tapping the tab key and then click in the center
of the bone to select all of it.
The main part the base and the tip.
And then I'll go to my move manipulator and drag it up into the character.
Now we can't really see it.
So we need to come over here to our armature panel and click on x ray.
And now we should be able to see it through our character.
So what I'm going to do is place this right about here.
Select that tip and just drag up and that will make the bone about as big as the character there.
So what I want to do now is create a new bone for this shoulder joint on a tab out of edit mode and
go back to object mode I'm going to select that upper arm and remember we've snapped all of the origins
to where the joints should be.
So now I can just press shift s and cursor to select it and it will pop the cursor right into that joint.
So now I'll select the main armature bone here go back into edit mode.
De-select everything with the key.
And now I will press shift a and when I'm in edit mode a new bone will automatically be created.
So there we've got the bone for the upper arm.
What I'm going to do is tab out of edit mode select the lower arm and move the cursor to the selected
to this elbow joint.
Now I can select that bone tab into edit mode and with this tip selected press shift s and move the
selection to the cursor and that will then align that bone with the upper arm.
So this is really the process we're going to use to create each of the bones for each of the parts of
the neck.
So what we can do now is tab out of edit mode select this sphere for the hand snap the cursor to that
selected object and then if I selected that armature again in Object mode and tab out into edit mode.
Now with this joint selected what I can do is hit E for extrude and when I extrude a bone out of a selected
joint like this it will automatically make it a child of the bone it's coming out of.
So this will be the parent and this will be the child.
So here I'll hit E and extrude and just I'm just pulling the mouse out and then click and now I want
to press shift s and snap that selected tip to the cursor.
So now I've got the lower arm bone in place and printed to the upper arm bone.
Now for the hand here I'm going to just going to come to the side here and just hit E and pull straight
out with the mouse and then click and we go.
So now I've got the bone for the hand.
The lower arm and the upper arm.
So before we get too far into this let's go ahead and name these I'm going to select this main bone
here press the end key scroll down and I'll call this bone root because that's the root of our character
and I'll call this one here.
I call this arm up L and I'll call this one arm low not l and I'll call this one and that L.
All right.
So let's work on the leg.
Now I'll tab out of edit mode select that upper leg move the cursor to the selected object now I'll
select the armature go into edit mode.
Hit the H key to d select all of the bones and then press shift a and that pops a bone right into there.
So next call select the lower leg in Object mode and move the cursor to it.
Select that armature tab into edit mode and now shift s selection to cursor and that moves that to the
knee joint.
Now from the side view.
Let me hit the three key here I can with this tip selected I can hit the e key and drag it down.
And then I want to select this he'll shift asked to move the cursor to the selected slike the armature
go into edit mode and snap that tip to the cursor.
All right.
So let's move into a little more here and I'll select this object.
Move the cursor to it.
Select the armature.
Edit mode.
Hit me and drag out like that.
And then I will press shift s and selection to cursor.
Now I just want to extrude straight out here so what I can do is just hit me and then hit the Y key
for the y axis and then just drag the mouse straight out and click and that will create the bones for
the legs.
Now we're going to mirror these over ultimately So we're only working on one side at a time.
I'll go ahead and select this leg bone called this leg up Al
leg low L.
I'll call this foot heel and I'll and I'll call this foot toe right now.
We can also create a bone for this spotlight up here Alt-Tab into object mode and hit the period key
to zoom in.
And if I select this piece the whole mech body and go into edit mode I'm going to select this ball right
here and move the cursor to it.
Now if I select the armature go into edit mode I'm going to hit the A key to make sure that nothing
is selected and then I'm going to press shift a and a bone will be created right there so many to go
into the side view with the three key five key for orthographic.
And I'm just going to move this straight out like this and the spotlight will be printed to this bone
and that's how we will rotate it and control it.
Next let's take a look at the fingers.
I'm going to select one of the fingers and zoom in.
What I think we want is one joint for this part of the finger one joint for this and one joint for the
tip.
So we need three bones for each of the fingers.
So I think what I want to do is select this object.
I'm going to press shift h to hide everything and then I'm going to tab into edit mode select that face
and move the cursor to that selected face.
Now hit alt h to bring everything back and hit a de-select.
Now if I select the armature all slide it over here and the outliner and tab into edit mode and hit
a to make sure there isn't anything selected.
And now I want to press shift a and a bone pops in right there.
Now I'm going to select this object.
And with that origin at that joint press shift s and cursor to selected I'll then go to the armature
and tab into edit mode and then shift s selection to cursor and there's my first bone now because I
want this one to be a child of that I'm going to go ahead and hit E and drag the mouse out like this.
And then I'll select this cursor to selected go back to the armature and snap that point snap that tip
to the cursor.
One last one like this.
Move the cursor to here.
Select the armature tab into edit mode.
Hit e to extrude and now snap that to the cursor.
So it's a bit convoluted the way we're doing this but we don't have a whole lot to do here.
We only have four fingers and simple arms and legs.
So I'll go ahead and work on the rest of the fingers.
I'll select this object.
Shift h to hide all the unselected objects shift s and move the cursor there.
Allt h to bring everything back.
Now I want to select the armature go into it edit mode make sure there isn't anything selected and shift
a to create a new bone like this and snap the cursor to it.
And now back in edit mode with the armature snap that tip to the cursor.
And now let's take that joint and extrude it out.
Move the cursor
and snap that tip to that point
I'll snap the cursor here.
Extrude out and snap that tip to the cursor and there we have the bones for the neck.
Now what we need to do is go through and name all of these.
And in the next video I'll talk about setting the role or the rotation of each of the bones.
So they bend in the proper directions.